Docu Falcon XBIOS routines of the Startrack Audiocard, release 30.11.97

All cookies would be readout by the start of the driver.
If you select the emulate mode (see Function "compatible" in DEVBIOS.TXT),
the driver set all cookies and OS-messages from an original TOS 4.04 of the Falcon. 
(sysbase-change in $4F2). This TOS-Emulationmode is also deselectable.
The Emulationmode is useful vor use older Falcon-programs that only runs
if it found a original Falcon-TOS.

- locksnd: full implemented

- unlocksnd: full implemented

- soundcmd: The parameters of LTATTEN,RTATTEN,LTGAIN and RTGAIN are full implemented.
            At this time the startingpoint of this parameter-values is 0dB.
            The Falcon CODEC has only 16 steps for attenuation (only for output) and 
            amplifying (only for input).
            The specific StarTrack XBIOS-functions volad(50) und volda(51) for the
            Volume controllers use better his potential. With it you have 256 steps
            for attenuation and amplifying for each controller (input AND output).
            
            ADDRIN is not implemented, the Hardware of the used DAC-converters
            offers not this feature (Hardwareadders find you typical only in CODECs).
            If a DSP program use this feature,the DSP program must update with a routine,
            that mix the DSP inputsource digital to the output (e.g. with ADD-instruction)
            for reach the same result.
            
            ADCINPUT is not implemented, the driver use ever the analog or digital input.
            A Soundchip is not a feature of the StarTrack Audiocard, that's the reason.
            You can select analog or digital input with the new XBIOS Function "digana".
            
            SETPRESCALE is not implemented, the Audiocard don't support it (no clockdivider).
            
- setbuffer: full implemented

- setsndmode: full implemented

- settrack: is implemented. The function is related of the record and playmode,
            look XBIOS functions recmode(26) and playmode(27)).
            After loading the XBIOS driver SOUND.PRG, the Stereomode(0) is active. In this mode
            the driver ignores the value of settrack. The Eightchannelmode is now implemented
            in buffoper and use the settrack correctly. The fourchannel and sixteenchannel mode
            is not implemented (in the Falcon-routines) at this time.
            The Falcon programs knows only the eightchannel mode,but a few programs runs
            additional in the Stereomode without problems (if the program don't use the DSP
            in his networkmode).
  
- setmontrack: is implemented, but only in the eight or 16channel modes.
               In Stereomode is setmontrack ignored (you have only 2 tracks).
  
- setinterrupt: is implemented, but the function of this is a little bit different.
  The StarTrack Audiocard is for the VME-Bus, and here it's impossible after
  bufferend to make a MFP-INT Level 15 or MFP-line IO7. This interruptlines are not
  implemented in the VME-Bus.
  The driver tries to emulate this interrupts: If you make a buffoper-call,the driver
  reads the Interrupt vectors of DMA-Sound aktive/Monochrome Detect MFP-Int15 ($13C)
  and Timer-A MFP-Int13 ($134) and use it as jumpadress for a jump in the interrupt-
  routines if a frame-end is occur.
  You can select the Vector for MFP-INT15 or the TIMER-A-Interrupt MFP-INT13, equal
  to the original Falcon routine.
  Important: You can't use the Timer-A as a counter for frame-interrupts and should
  NEVER program the counter for frame-interrupts ! Eliminate this routines from your
  Falcon-program if it shall run on the StarTrack Audiocard. Program a own
  software-counter that you counts up in the Interrupt routine if you use a framecounter.
  It is also important, that you don't demask this framecount-Interrupts of the MFP. 
  It's impossible (at this time), to mix the Interrupt sources, e.g. Timer-A for
  Record and MFP-Int for Play at the same time. I'm not sure, whether the Falcon
  support this mixed mode. 

- buffoper: is implemented. The stereomode is ready. The special Fourchannelmode
  for use parallel the digital and analog sources/destination for record and play
  isn't implement at this time,but you have own XBIOS-Functions that's ready to use.
  The eightchannelmode is implemented but not complete tested at this time.
  The 16channelmode is not implemented at this time,you can use it only with the own
  XBIOS Functions. For switch between the record and playmodes of the Audiocard,
  please look the functions recmode(26) and playmode(27) in the XBIOS-Docu.

- dsptristate: is implemented, but i don't know it's correct or not.
  dspxmit: disconnect/connect the DSP lines SC1 and SC2 from the Matrix.
  dsprec:  disconnect/connect the DSP lines SC0 and SRD from the Matrix.

  The risk of damage the DSP or the Audiocard with a wrong connection is normally impossible (i hope).
  The lines SC0,SC1 and SC2 are ever driven by the Matrix and the Matrix can't receive data
  from the DSP on these lines. Remind this, if you do program the DSP
  (don't program the lines SC0,SC1 or SC2 as output in the DSP program)!
  The receive-line from the DSPcard to the matrix is only one
  Matrix Input of a couple of inputs and can transport the DSP-STD,RDATA from the
  DSP-Port or the Matrix-Outputdata. Look additional the Matrix diagram MATRIX.IMG,
  that shows the different Matrix of the Audiocard and the DSPcard.
  The hardware can disconnect/connect each single line of SRD,SC0,SC1 and SC2 of
  the connection between DSP and Matrix.
  
- gpio: is full implemented.
  The selection of the sourceclock of external interfaces (ADAT and SPDIF) is automatic and
  compatible to the Soundpool-Specification
  
- devconnect: The connection crossbarmatrix-programming is full implemented with the restrictions of
              the realised Matrix in the Startrack and DSP-Expansion. Look additional the diagram
              MATRIX.IMG of the StarTrack-Matrix and DSPcard-Matrix
              
              srcclk: is full implemented and extended with an additional mode. The clockrates are partly
              other definited as the clockrates in the Falcon.
              
              0 - Internal clocks of the Startrack Audiocard, declarated in the XBIOS Function
                  sclock(23) and with the same clock-definitions.
                  
              1 - External clock. That's uses the masterclock from the DSP-Port EXCLK-line for clockrates.
                  The GPIO-Bits of the DSP-Port are interpreted of the Soundpool-Specifications:
                  GPIO2=0 -> SP/DIF (that uses the clock of the SP/DIF,
                                     a external SP/DIF works not with the Audiocard)
                  GPIO2=1 -> ADAT (that uses the clock of the ADAT)
                  GPIO1=0 -> pll (clock comes from the pll of the interface)
                  GPIO1=1 -> quartzgenerated clock (comes from the interface quartz, see GPIO0)
                  GPIO0=0 -> 44.1 kHz quartzgenerated clock from the interface
                  GPIO0=1 -> 48 kHz quartzgenerated clock from the interface

              2 - use the extended CLKDIV-divider of the DSPcard in combination with a external clock 
                  With this divider and in combination with the dividers of the Audiocard
                  you can use 60 additional clockrates ! Look also the description of the XBIOS-Function
                  clkdivide. Here the list of the clockrates:
                  
                   0..14 -> extclock/256/x     x=0..14
                  15..29 -> extclock/384/x     x=0..14
                  30..44 -> extclock/512/x     x=0..14
                  45..59 -> extclock/768/x     x=0..14
                  
              3 - Falcon compatible clockrates in combination with a external 25.175 MHZ clockmodule and the
                  CLKDIV-dividers of the DSP card.
                  The clockrates are conform to the devconnect->prescale definitions from the Falcon.
                  In contrast to the Falcon you can use all Samplerates with the ADC and DAC-converters.
                  A few documentations of the samplerates are wrong, here a correct version:
                  
                   0 -> digital pll (a STE-mode is not implemented)
                   1 -> 49170 Hz
                   2 -> 32780 Hz
                   3 -> 24585 Hz
                   4 -> 19668 Hz
                   5 -> 16390 Hz
                   6 -> 14049 Hz
                   7 -> 12292 Hz
                   8 -> 10927 Hz
                   9 -> 9834 Hz
                  10 -> 8940 Hz
                  11 -> 8195 Hz
                  12 -> 7565 Hz
                  13 -> 7024 Hz
                  14 -> 6556 Hz
                  15 -> n.c. (in the Falcon 6146 Hz)
              
              The clocksource-numbers 0 and 3 can you change with the XBIOS function extclkmode(75).
              If you change this numbers, you can use the original samplerates of the Falcon without
              a change in the srcclk-programming.
              Than you can use the additional Samplerates of the Startrack Audiocard on sourceclock number 3.
              
              extclkmode:
              -----------
              clkfalcon: XBIOS 500,75,value = 0 - no external 25.175 MHz clockmodule present 
                                              1 - external 25.175 MHz clockmodule is present
                     
              prescale: is full implemented,but the most of the clockrates are others as in the Falcon,
                        according to the selected srcclk mode (see above).                        
                        
              protocol: is not implemented. The Audiomatrix use only a own handshaking.
                        Is the computer too slow for handle the datastreams,you lost the data. 
                        
- sndstatus: is partly implemented. If you overflow the Input level of the ADC the routine sets
             the clippingbits. The clippingbits will be reset if you read out the sndstatus.
             Not tested is the relation between this routine and the Falcon-routine of his
             correctness.
             The other bits (invalid control field,invalid sync format and invalid clock)
             are not implemented, the Hardware don't support this informations.
             Reset(1) is supported. This resets the complete Soundsystem, and initialize it
             with the values from the XBIOS start-initialisation (select analog input,
             stereo 16bit,connection ADC->DAC,stereomode etc). This routine is different
             and the initialisation is not compatible to the falcon at this time.
             This routine must be changed in the future for more compatibility to the falcon.
             The recognition of the FDI (= SP/DIF) is implemented and can tested 
             with sndstatus($4711), i.e. this emulate a installed FDI-interface - 
             Think,the FDI (= SP/DIF) indeed is a normal StarTrack-Feature.
             
- buffptr: is full implemented.

All DSP specific XBIOS-Functions that's begin with DSP_... are now implemented
and are imported and adapt from MagiC for the StarTrack-Audiocard.

Important: Direct access to Falcon Hardware Registers are impossible !

The DSP is normally in the adress-space from $FFDF0600 to $FFDF0607 in the Mega STE and
from $FEFF0600 to $FEFF0607 in all other systems (Hades,Medusa,TT).
Please use the Function cardadr(13) to get the DSP-Host Startadress.
The Hades and Medusa MMU-Accessory copy the DSP adress-space to the original
Falcon Adress-space to $FFA200 - this is only supported from Hades and Medusa.
With a special TT-driver for the 68030-MMU this would be also practicable for the TT,
but it's better to use the DSP adresses from the cardadr-table. This MMU-feature is
only implemented for more compatibility.

Very important:
The DSP-Registers are bytewide, and supports only bytewide write and read-accesses.
Word and Longword-Accesses are impossible and forbidden !
The Falcon has a Access-Translator that breaks this Word and Longwordaccesses
into this 8Bit-Accesses...and this is not implemented in the Audiocard. 

For programming the DSP in 2channel and 8channelmode you should look into the
DSP-examples in the folder \PROGDSP.

END

              
               
              

