STARTRACK-Soundcheck

Hello !

I have make an exact soundcheck with this Soundcard, and the result is,
that the sound of my DAT-recorder (Onkyo DAT-901) is not better as the soundcard.
On the contrary - partly noise the soundcard less as the DAT-recorder !

I have until now the soundcard successful tested on the following systems:
TT, Medusa T40, Hades 060.
(For all people which it not to know: the Hades is a Atari-compatible construction
from Switzerland (Medusa Computer Systems) with 4 PCI, 2 ISA-Bus and 
1 VME-Bus-connectors, 8 sockets for PS/2-RAM and as processor an MC68040
with 64 MHz or an MC68060 with 60 MHz in a Mini-Tower).

I have make a few tests with the Hades 060 and my Sample-Editor for Startrack,
that me really have knocked-out:

10 tracks mixing and level-adjustment for each Stereotrack at 48 kHz samplerate
12 tracks mixing and level-adjustment for each Stereotrack at 44.1 kHz samplerate
16 tracks mixing and level-adjustment for each Stereotrack at 32 kHz samplerate

Thereby is it important to know, that the mainprogram is written in GFA-Basic
and the sample load-routines also execute in GFA-Basic.
Only the mixing from the tracks is execute in Assembler.
By an optimizing from the load-routines in Assembler is it most likely,
that you can more tracks mixing.
The complete calculating is making by the host-mainprocessor (68060) from
the Hades and not from the DSP.
The DSP can parallel to the hostprocessor calculate DSP-Effects.

Altogether (in my opinion) is the Hades ideal for Harddisk-recording.
It have a great System-Performance (more then PCs and Apples ?).

For musicians really interesting and important: The VME-card can you plug in a
special 5 1/4 inch slot in your PC-case. All connectors from the Soundcard
are now on the front from the PC-case. That is very practical and useful, when you
often connect and disconnect the Connectors (Cinch and TOSLINK-Opto). 
The Soundcard have following Connectors:
digital Input and Output (optical TOSLINK and Cinch, switchable)
Stereo-Analog-Input (2 Cinch) with 16Bit sigma-delta linear A/D, 64 x oversampled
Stereo-Analog-Output (2 Cinch) with 18Bit sigma-delta linear D/A, 64 x oversampled
Thereby are the Input and Output exactly one after another trimmed i.e.
at 0dB-Output-Level have the Output the same level as the Input.
The Output have CD-Player-level.
You have also a SCMS-Decoder for free-copy from the digital-Input and Highend
Stereo-Volume-Controllers (in hardware) for the Input and optional for the Output.
The XLR-extension is in a double 5 1/4 Inch-Slot for a PC-Case. The XLR-Connectors
are now on the front from the PC-case. Optional can you have this extension as a
VME-Slotcard.
You have digital AES/EBU Input and Output in XLR-norm and Analog-Input and Output
in XLR with Studiolevel.
